docs/DeepImpact.md, before:

---
title: DeepImpact
description: A Blueprint Function Library for depth-based line traces in Unreal Engine, providing realistic penetration and bullet hole positioning
---
This is a `Blueprint Function Library` with a few functions that are callable in `AActors` to do depth trace results, for use in things like projectiles and tools.

![[TraceExample.mp4]]
## Features
- Depth-based trace
- Forward and backward trace results for bullet holes
- Physics material based density calculations
- Simple to implement into existing systems
- Easy debug options

---

## How it works
This node works by simulating depth using two line traces—one forward and one backward from the point of impact. These traces scan for objects in their paths and gather information about the hit results. The distance travelled through each material is multiplied by its density (defined in the material's physical properties), which determines how much the projectile is slowed down or whether it stops entirely. Finally, the node returns a list of hit results, including the total depth.

## Variants
Depth Trace by Channel
![[DepthTraceByChannel.png]] 
Depth Trace for Objects
![[DepthTraceForObjects.png]]
Depth Trace by Profile
![[DepthTraceByProfile.png]]

### Input

| **Member**           | **Definition**                                                                                                                                          |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Start**            | Start of the Trace                                                                                                                                      |
| **End**              | End of the Trace                                                                                                                                        |
| **Trace Complex**    | If the trace will use [`Complex Collision`](https://dev.epicgames.com/documentation/en-us/unreal-engine/simple-versus-complex-collision-in-unreal-engine) |
| **Actors To Ignore** | Array of `AActor`s, to ignore while tracing                                                                                                             |
| **Draw Debug Type**  | Draw Debug Arrows over Time, or Persistently                                                                                                            |
| **Ignore Self**      | If the traces should ignore the Current actor (`Self`)                                                                                                  |
| **Trace Color**      | The color of the trace, when it's not going through anything.                                                                                           |
| **Trace Hit Color**  | The color of the trace, when it's going through something.                                                                                              |
| **Draw Time**        | Amount of time to draw debug lines (if not persistent)                                                                                                  |
| **Max Depth**        | Maximum depth for the trace to go                                                                                                                       |

## Implementing into existing systems

This can be seamlessly integrated with existing systems with minimal changes to your current blueprint setup.

By simply replacing your current line trace nodes with the Depth Trace node, you’ll get the added benefit of depth effects.

## Adding Trace Collision Channel (optional)

While adding a custom collision channel is optional, it can be a bit more time-consuming and may cause other systems in your project to break if not set up correctly. By default, your existing channels might not be set to overlap, so setting up a new custom trace channel helps ensure compatibility.

To set up a custom trace channel in Unreal Engine, follow these steps:

1. Go to **Project Settings → Engine → Collision**.
2. In the **Collision Channels** section, click **Add New**.
3. Set the following properties for the new channel:
    - **Name**: `Projectile` (or a name of your choice)
    - **Default Response**: `Overlap`

For more detailed instructions on adding a custom object type to your project, you can refer to the [Unreal Engine Wiki on Custom Object Types](https://dev.epicgames.com/documentation/en-us/unreal-engine/add-a-custom-object-type-to-your-project-in-unreal-engine).

## Physical materials (optional)

Default [`Physical Material`](https://dev.epicgames.com/documentation/en-us/unreal-engine/physical-materials-user-guide-for-unreal-engine) properties are at **1 g/cm³**, but adding more physical properties into your game can add extra depth. 
### Example Material Densities

| Material   | Density (g/cm³) |
| ---------- | --------------- |
| Styrofoam  | 0.1             |
| Pine Wood  | 0.5             |
| Water      | 0.5             |
| Glass      | 1               |
| Concrete   | 2.4             |
| Aluminum   | 2.7             |
| Iron/Steel | 7.8             |
| Copper     | 8.9             |
| Lead       | 11.3            |

---

## Acknowledgements

- [loafbrr_1](https://opengameart.org/users/loafbrr1) for the pistol model
- [Neil Francis](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:B1_full_size_1500_target.jpg) for the target image

Commit message:

updated to include example level in the text

docs/DeepImpact.md, after:

---
title: DeepImpact
description: A Blueprint Function Library for depth-based line traces in Unreal Engine, providing realistic penetration and bullet hole positioning
---
This is a `Blueprint Function Library` with a few functions that are callable in `AActors` to do depth trace results, for use in things like projectiles and tools.

![[TraceExample.mp4]]
## Features
- Depth-based trace
- Forward and backward trace results for bullet holes
- Physics material based density calculations
- Simple to implement into existing systems
- Easy debug options


---

## How it works
This node works by simulating depth using two line traces—one forward and one backward from the point of impact. These traces scan for objects in their paths and gather information about the hit results. The distance travelled through each material is multiplied by its density (defined in the material's physical properties), which determines how much the projectile is slowed down or whether it stops entirely. Finally, the node returns a list of hit results, including the total depth.

Check out the example setup in `/All/Plugins/PenetrationTrace/Example/DEMO_GunRange`. Edit the `BP_GunTest` to explore how the traces and decal positioning work, along with some fun timeline-based animations! ;D
## Variants
Depth Trace by Channel
![[DepthTraceByChannel.png]] 
Depth Trace for Objects
![[DepthTraceForObjects.png]]
Depth Trace by Profile
![[DepthTraceByProfile.png]]

### Input

| **Member**           | **Definition**                                                                                                                                          |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Start**            | Start of the Trace                                                                                                                                      |
| **End**              | End of the Trace                                                                                                                                        |
| **Trace Complex**    | If the trace will use [`Complex Collision`](https://dev.epicgames.com/documentation/en-us/unreal-engine/simple-versus-complex-collision-in-unreal-engine) |
| **Actors To Ignore** | Array of `AActor`s, to ignore while tracing                                                                                                             |
| **Draw Debug Type**  | Draw Debug Arrows over Time, or Persistently                                                                                                            |
| **Ignore Self**      | If the traces should ignore the Current actor (`Self`)                                                                                                  |
| **Trace Color**      | The color of the trace, when it's not going through anything.                                                                                           |
| **Trace Hit Color**  | The color of the trace, when it's going through something.                                                                                              |
| **Draw Time**        | Amount of time to draw debug lines (if not persistent)                                                                                                  |
| **Max Depth**        | Maximum depth for the trace to go                                                                                                                       |

## Implementing into existing systems

This can be seamlessly integrated with existing systems with minimal changes to your current blueprint setup.

By simply replacing your current line trace nodes with the Depth Trace node, you’ll get the added benefit of depth effects.

## Adding Trace Collision Channel (optional)

While adding a custom collision channel is optional, it can be a bit more time-consuming and may cause other systems in your project to break if not set up correctly. By default, your existing channels might not be set to overlap, so setting up a new custom trace channel helps ensure compatibility.

To set up a custom trace channel in Unreal Engine, follow these steps:

1. Go to **Project Settings → Engine → Collision**.
2. In the **Collision Channels** section, click **Add New**.
3. Set the following properties for the new channel:
    - **Name**: `Projectile` (or a name of your choice)
    - **Default Response**: `Overlap`

For more detailed instructions on adding a custom object type to your project, you can refer to the [Unreal Engine Wiki on Custom Object Types](https://dev.epicgames.com/documentation/en-us/unreal-engine/add-a-custom-object-type-to-your-project-in-unreal-engine).

## Physical materials (optional)

Default [`Physical Material`](https://dev.epicgames.com/documentation/en-us/unreal-engine/physical-materials-user-guide-for-unreal-engine) properties are at **1 g/cm³**, but adding more physical properties into your game can add extra depth. 
### Example Material Densities

| Material   | Density (g/cm³) |
| ---------- | --------------- |
| Styrofoam  | 0.1             |
| Pine Wood  | 0.5             |
| Water      | 0.5             |
| Glass      | 1               |
| Concrete   | 2.4             |
| Aluminum   | 2.7             |
| Iron/Steel | 7.8             |
| Copper     | 8.9             |
| Lead       | 11.3            |

---

## Acknowledgements

- [loafbrr_1](https://opengameart.org/users/loafbrr1) for the pistol model
- [Neil Francis](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:B1_full_size_1500_target.jpg) for the target image
